---
layout: post
title: Introducing roc at OAI8
---
It is with awe and a little trepidation that we venture out to OAI8 to present
the idea and beginnings of what we call the Open Research Core, or simply: roc.
We hope to meet many of those whose work we have studied the past couple years,
whom we admire. roc is not some grand new thing---we've simply designed it
based on what we have learned from people smarter than we are.

We are grateful to many people, many of whom we have never actually met in
person, but whose research we have studied. These researchers seem to have a
sympathetic approach to ours. Much of this research we have discovered after
coming up with similar ideas for new ways to publish and disseminate research,
but that doesn't matter. It's actually a good thing that multiple independent
people are reaching similar conclusions. This means that this vision of the
future of research is not just a pipe dream, but will actually happen. These
conclusions are tending towards a completely new way that research is conducted
and shared---a universe of research that is collaborative, instinctive, and
open.

The world of research is changing.

After almost 400 years, this is pretty exciting news.

If you have never heard of roc before, that's okay. We really were not planning
on releasing it this soon. We were going to perfect it and test it in a few
research domains before releasing it, but things just fell into place to open
it up earlier, undone. We've wanted to involve the research community more
anyways. We hope that you will see the potential of what we are doing and will
want to be part of it.

We hope that the fact that we are a commercial company will not deter you.
[Check us out](http://pentandra.com)---we are a very open company with a
mission to make research better, a social entrepreneurship company. We just
have a different funding model than a not-for-profit. [We have
reasons](/faq#commercial).

So if you want to find out what roc is all about, start at the
[guides](/guides/).
